Hi. My name is John Langford,
and I want to tell you about
contextual bandits for real-world
reinforcement learning.
It stems from a long-term
project I've been working on for
more than a decade resulting in
many real-world deployments
and in general,
contextual bandits are the way
that reinforcement
learning is deployed
in the real-world these days.
Let's start with why we want
to think about the real-world.
In general, how reinforcement
is often different
from the real-world.
Typically, right now
reinforcement learning
works with the simulator.
A simulator provides
observations,
and then a learning algorithm
has a policy which
chooses an action.
The simulator then processes
and returns in reward.
This is what happens when you do
reinforcement learning for
a gameplay, for example.
Now, when you want to apply
this to the real-world,
there's a real question about
how these things align.
So for example, when
an observation comes
from real-world,
is it like observation
from a simulator?
Typically, it differs
in various ways.
When the action is taken
based on an observation,
is it the same?
Often, differs because nature
of the observation is different,
which leads to different action
even given the same policy.
Then, is the reward
that you get back from
real-world similar to what
you get in the simulator?
No, the answer is no.
It is not similar.
So given this,
there's a divergence.
There's is a gap between the
simulator and the reality.
So while you can try to
learn in simulators,
the applicability of what
you've learned in simulators to
the real-world applications
is unclear and in many cases,
maybe even not even possible.
So given that there's
gap between simulator-based
reinforcement learning,
which is where much of
reinforcement learning is,
and real-world-based
reinforcement learning,
how do you do real-world
reinforcement learning?
I think the key answer is
a shift in priorities.
So you want to shift
your priorities to
support real-world reinforcement
learning applications.
So as an example,
Temporal Credit Assignment,
In other words,
which we've watched the game,
is really important to
reinforcement learning.
But maybe it's a
little less important.
Maybe generalization across
different observations
is more important.
In a simulator, it's easy for
the reinforcement
learning algorithm
to control the environment.
You can say step forward
one step please.
But in the real-world,
typically the environment
controls you.
This is a fundamental
import in terms
of what your interfaces need to
be for working with
the real-world.
Computational efficiency is
the key limiting concern in
a simulator because you
have as many samples
as you can compute.
But in the real-world,
statistical efficiency
is the greater concern
because you only have
the samples that the
real-world gives you,
and so you must use those samples
to achieve the greatest
impact that you can.
In simulator based
reinforced learning,
we have to think about state.
Well, state is
the fundamental information
necessary in order
to make a decision.
But in the real world,
often you have some very
complex observation which
may have much more information
that's necessary to
make a decision.
If you have a megapixel camera,
maybe you don't need all those
pixels to make a decision,
and maybe it's important to
distinguish between all of
those different possible
pixel settings as a state
in making a decision
in other ways.
When you're in the real world,
suddenly it becomes
important to be able
to off policy evaluation.
So in contextual bandits,
which I'll talk
about in a moment,
there are algorithms
which just do learning,
and the algorithms
do learning but
also as a byproduct
produced it the
candidate that you can do
a policy evaluation with.
Naturally, these
policy evaluation
supporting algorithms are just
preferred for
actual applications.
Another distinction has to come
with which policy you care about.
In a simulator, maybe you run for
a long time and save last
policies you care about.
But in the real world,
every data point you're gathering
involve some interaction
with the world,
the way you want that
performance to be pretty good.
So you really care about
the entire trajectory
of policies,
the sequence of
policies as you're
learning in the real world.
Let's think about
personalized news.
This is a very
natural application
for reinforcement learning
in the real-world.
Maybe you have a set of
possible news articles which
are the ones of interest today.
Some music comes to a website.
You would like to choose
some news article that they
probably are interested in.
Then you get some feedback about
whether or not they
actually read the article.
So this is a very
natural reinforcement
learning structure
and this is in fact even simpler
to it's contextual
bandit structure.
So think about what
contextual bandits are?
In contextual bandits
what happens is,
you observe some features.
Maybe it is the
geolocation of the user.
Maybe it's some profile
based on the way the user
has behaved in the past.
Maybe it's features of
the possible actions which
are available as well.
Based on this, you
choose an action and
then you get some reward.
Your goal is to maximize
the reward in the setting.
Case canal, this sounds like
full reinforcement learning
and it is to a large extent.
But there's one severe
caveat which is
that we're imagining there's
no credit assignment problem.
So the news article that is
displayed to you does not
influence the way
I will behave when
the news article is
explained to me.
The history of this is
actually pretty recent.
Something where
the world has changed
a great deal over
the last decade.
So in 2007, there was
the first contextual
bandit algorithm called
Epoch Greedy which is
essentially a version of
Epsilon Greedy that varies
the epsilon dealing
on how much you know.
We rapidly discovered there's
an even earlier paper,
the EXP4 algorithm
which in some sense
is even more efficient
statistically.
But it's horrifically
bad computationally.
In 2010, we had
our first application of
personalized news that was
deployed in the real world
when I was at Yahoo research.
In 2011, we had
the first marriage of
Epoch Greedy style learning and
EXP4 style learning to achieve,
if essentially there
was computationally
statistically efficient.
In 2014, we had
an even better algorithm we
came up with which you can
actually use today,
and then 2016,
we created the first version of
a decision service which is
a general service
Cloud service you could use
to create your own
contextual bandit learner.
Two thousand and nineteen,
this eventually led to
an reinforcement learning
service product,
the Azure Cognitive
Services Personalizer.
Based upon the service,
you can go and personalize
your website or
its layout or many other things.
It's a general service.
You can feed in
arbitrary features,
choose an action, and then sit
in an arbitrary word
with it learning.
Based upon the system,
we actually have
2019 AI system of the year.
So I don't have enough time
to go into great detail here.
But if you're interested in
more details on
contextual bandits,
there's a tutorial out
[inaudible] in 2018,
which I recommend
taking a look at.
If you're interested in
the personalizer service,
that's available at this URL,
and then if you should
need algorithms behind
the personalizer service and
internal implementations of
contextual bandit algorithms,
Vowpal Wabbit has become
a repository for a large number
of different contextual
bandit algorithms. Thank you.